We've been discussing consistency in your campaign tagging practices.
Let's discuss consistency across marketing teams.
That is, how can you maintain consistent compliance
with your agreed upon tagging practices once they're in place.
This is about people, processes and accountability.
Leverage smart tools of course,
but it's really how you practice accountability
toward one another for those agreed upon naming conventions
that will really allow you to establish
consistency within and across your marketing teams.
Meet frequently and agree on key tagging taxonomies for
UTM parameters especially the main building blocks of source, medium and campaign.
Use a URL builder tool or spreadsheet to enforce
that consistency across channels and teams wherever you can.
Again, this isn't a substitute for the people and process part of the equation,
but it can make it easier to share and organize
this information so that people don't have to go hunting and
frantically scrambling to find what one team member is
doing or what a particular initiative is supposed to be tagged as.
A spreadsheet such as this utility that I've linked to
from inner makes it really easy to enforce consistency
in your tagging and to do so in a way that's
really easily shareable with a team or across teams.
Just to demonstrate, we have a destination URL here,
www.myexample.site.com and then here I have a list of
sources and these are going to be only valid sources that we've all agreed on.
In this case, let's say we're trying to create an affiliate link.
Trade doubler is our affiliate platform,
so we'll choose trade doubler as source.
For medium, we will choose affiliates.
There's no key word or add content data.
I could add just one URL or I could add multiple URLs at one time
and then I can create a fully tagged tracking URL.
This utility will output a fully tagged tracking URL as well as a minified URL
which is great for social media tracking in your posts and promoted content.